Shirley Ward | nanashuey@yahoo.com

I was with the RCG for several months, but got out because I was treated like child in an elementary school. I was told I had to call (one of the members ) to let them know if I wasn’t going to be there on the Sabbath. I made it very clear that I, am 76 yrs old, and had some medical problems that kept from leaving the house. When I didn’t call, I was reprimanded. I explained that if I didn’t show up, that I was too ill or the weather was too bad.. I also, explained the difficulties I had, getting to and from the meetings, as it took me two hours to get there and that the traffic was extremely bad. Then I was told that I nor my grandson wasn’t allowed to go the restroom during the sermon to do so before or after the sermon, which was a problem for me, because of the medications I took. I was furious when I would get phone calls about how I or my grandson would leave during the sermon, so after the last tongue lashing I went on line and left a scorching e-mail and told them what and how I felt about the RCG Mr. Pack and his ego trips, constant need for money for his building fund and so on. So there, I just validated all of your comments.
-----------------------------------------------------
Kevin Rand | KRand@yahoo.com

My dear friend who is unfortunately a brainwashed member of this RCG cult of insanity excitedly showed me part of the most recent “newsletter” from Pack. In this letter Pack claims that their numbers are expanding rapidly through the “front door” and “back door” exits from the flock are diminishing. He then urges everyone to be their brother’s keeper by making sure with their fellowship that no one leaves the church for any reason. Of course there were no hard numbers or actual facts associated with this, but it read to me like a thinly veiled plea for action to everyone to be vigilant in their observations of others to ensure that everyone is thinking and acting correctly. It all sounded rather Nazi-esque to me. Of course all this glad-handed drum beating was simply the monthly “send in your money” letter. Pack sends these long-winded marketing letters out monthly to all of the flock to try and whip up more support and get more money into the RCG coffers (A.K.A. Pack’s pocket). Pack is constantly bragging about their free publication volume and their expanding internet and TV audience. This nauseates me thinking that this corrupt lying scum is sending out this hateful and dishonest propaganda to people in an ever expanding scale. It really convinces me that people will read and believe anything if it makes them feel important or in some way better about themselves – no matter how much of a blatant lie it is.

To this day I simply don’t understand how these supposedly smart people can be so blind to the manipulation and half-truths that are spewed at them from every corner of this “church”. Recently my friend has told me that since the church believes that the whole concept of retirement is a sin, he is now looking for another job. Keep in mind that this man is old and frail and truly deserves to retire and enjoy what is left of his life. Instead, he is constantly berated by his preacher about getting a job and tithing “his share”. The poor man’s wife is beside herself since she is also frail and frequently sick and hoping to retire from her job in the next few years, and he simply has told her that she is not allowed and must work until the day she dies. Apparently Pack wants people to work themselves to death for him and his ridiculous sham of a church.

Words fail to sway these people, they have been told that listening to reason or reading anything on sites like this (yes, I have tried), is the worst possible sin against the church and that we are all just voices of Satan. It really makes me wonder how Pack and his network of preachers can live with themselves. Greedy, cruel, heartless scum is all I can say about them.
-----------------------------------------------------
Ex-RCG | ishmaelmunoz@yahoo.com

I was in RCG several years ago. I had my doubts about Dave Pack for a few years before joining his “one true church”. Needless, to say I didn’t last there long. It wasn’t hard to figure out that he was all about, and his BIG ego. It’s hard to believe that people stay with him. He is so far off from sound Bible teaching…..it isn’t funny. It only proves to me that people don’t want the truth…they enjoy a make-believe world.
-----------------------------------------------------

Don Williams | donwilliams@rogers.com

"I personally know of a widow in the RCG who, with her four daughters, went an entire winter without heat with absolutely no help from the church! Yet, this same, sweet woman still believes that Mr. Pack is God’s true and only apostle!

Yet, one day, in opening prayer, I was bullied by the local RCG minister because I had a hymnal in my hands while praying!

This is a splinter that is starting to make Mr. Flurry look good!"


"I’ve had the same experience and when questioned about it I was put out of the RCG. Of course, I was planning to leave anyway as it’s clear the RCG is a cult, and of the worst kind!

I remember in a sermon and a Bible study where Mr. Pack said that if “your retired… you have to un-retire yourself, and if your disabled, you have to un-disabled yourself’, or you won’t get salvation. Basically, because if you didn’t give more money to the RCG it was simply because you were just being ‘selfish’, etc.

I hope those in the RCG wake up like several others I know of. Mr. Pack, and his henchmen, are truly evil and the opposite of what a true minister of Christ should be, one who is willing to lay down his life for the sheep."
-----------------------------------------------------
John Thornton | globetrotter@firenet.ws

Dave Pack & RCG use Google Ads and a nasty cookie (some would claim virus) to track you all around the Internet after visiting his website. That is why HWA’s mugshot plus the RCG link keeps appearing if you visit WND and other sites. He is monitoring your web activity! I’ve even seen his ad on financial sites. One wonders why….. Of course he blames it all on Google! Ce n’est pas moi! For further info contact me through Silenced!

Hi all

When I recently posted a comment on what I had found Pack/RCG were up to, I gave that information and to warn people against his harmful cookies/malware etc. and his ‘tracking’ adware tactics.

I must say that since then, a lot of what I seem to have witnessed on this thread is drivelous, offensive, argumentative tripe — which just ‘appears’ in my Inbox. So I probably shouldn’t have bothered.

I really have neither the time nor the inclination to read or enter into any of this. I will therefore be unsubscribing.

Regards, but Goodbye

John
-----------------------------------------------------