

 	 	 


In January the UCG, IA council of elders requests that president David Hulme either support the church's decision to move its headquarters to Cincinnatti, Ohio or resign. When Mr. Hulme refuses to do either, the council overwhelmingly votes to fire him as president. Bob Dick, chairman of the council of elders, temporarily replaces Hulme as president until March, when Les McCullough is elected president.
The official reason given for Hulme's dismissal is " . . . differences between the Council and President regarding operations of the organization." Further official elaboration is not provided, in part due to possible lawsuits. However, based on unofficial statements from elders and employees reported in The Journal's January 1998 issue, Hulme's separation comes down to conflicts over "who is in charge." Instead of governing by cooperation with the council of elders and carrying out decisions approved by the general ministry, Dave as president made many decisions as if he had total control (like HWA).
David Hulme would soon form Church of God, an International Community, which would become one of the largest churches with a history back to the WCG. In 2003, a total of approximately 2,600 members and guests attend the church's Feast of Tabernacle sites around the world.
Bryce Clark, a former WCG minister who in 1975 joined the Church of God, The Eternal (COGTE) founded by Raymond Cole, leaves the group. After his departure due to doctrinal differences, he forms the Bethel Church of God. Mr. Cole continues operating COGTE until his death in 2001.
Ongoing growing disagreements between Global Church of God (GCG) founder Roderick Meredith and the church's board, primarily over church government, will come to a head in November.
When Rod formed the GCG five years ago, he set up bylaws that created a church structure whereby the organization would be governed by a consensus. Now however, instead of governance by consensus of board and council of elders, he strongly felt (as reported in August 1998 issue of The Journal) he should be the sole "unquestioned leader" of the church.
Conflicts over "who is in charge" coupled with the sadly common desire among Ex-WCG ordained men to possess unaccountable control, are by far the chief catalysts behind the majority of WCG splits.
The church board passes a resolution on Nov. 20th affirming that membership lists and mailing lists/files are the sole property of the Global Church of God and use of them without written consent of the executive committee was strictly prohibited. Although still employed by GCG, Rod Meredith dates and sends a letter on Nov. 21st to members using unapproved church lists. The letter makes several accusations and requests members NOT to send their tithes/offerings to GCG, but instead send their checks to Rod personally made out to him. On November 25th, the board fires Rod after he refuses to resign.
Rod Meredith soon forms the Living Church of God (LCG). It is estimated 70% to 80% of brethren leave the GCG for the new group. The GCG would continue as an organization until September 1999. Due to a lawsuit won by a LCG member against the GCG, the church is in effect bankrupted. The Church of God, a Christian Fellowship (CGCF) is formed by former GCG members. The CGCF starts with 34 elders, 25 congregations and about 1,000 brethren around the world. Around June 2001 most of the CGCF merges with the United Church of God, an International Association. Before the merger some CGCF members leave and form the Church of the Eternal God.
 	 	 
 	 	 
2000 CG7 Hispanic Conference in U. S. begins preaching the trinity.
The WCG sells its Ambassador University campus in Big Sandy, Texas. The buyer is an arts and crafts corporation called Hobby Lobby. The company will lease the facilities to the Institute in Basic Life Principles, a ministry of Bill Gothard. The entire campus sells for $8.5 million dollars.
 	 	 
 	 	 
2003 Garner Ted Armstrong, son of HWA, dies on September 15th. His son Mark Armstrong is named "chairman of the church" in October. He would later be named president of operations for the ICG.	 	 
 	 	 
2004 Tom Kerry, George Trent, Bruce Chapman, along with other ICG ministers and members, leave the ICG and form Churches of God, Worldwide. The primary contention that produces the split concerns Mark Armstrong leading the church. Some feel that Mark is not legally qualified to lead the church because he is not ordained and hasn't been baptized the required minimum of ten years. Others admit that Mark is unordained, but that he is only carrying out the operational aspects put in place by his father Garner Ted. Mark states his job is not to tell ministers of ICG how to carry out their ministerial duties. The conflict over Mark's position in the church, coupled with other church administration disagreements, leads to a split.
The new group, barely a few months old, is contacted both in March and April by Ralph Helge, attorney for the Worldwide Church of God. The first letter advises the group to stop using Churches of God, Worldwide as a name because it was " . . .deceptively similar and an infringement on our client's name (Worldwide Church of God)." The second letter is stronger and threatens lawsuits. Rather than get entangled in a long court battle, the new group changes its name to Churches of God, Worldwide Ministries. By August, the new organization lists more than 50 churches and fellowships that are affiliated with it. In May the WCG sells approximately 13 of its 31-acre west campus to Maranatha High School and Harvest Rock Church. The sale includes many of the campus' main buildings: Ambassador Auditorium, Hall of Administration, Physical Education Complex, Student Center and Men's Dormitory. Harvest Rock dedicates Ambassador Auditorium on July 4th.

6.12.2007 CE: Yisrayl “Buffalo Bill” Hawkins of The House of Yahweh changes his prediction to this date, citing that his original prediction would follow a woman’s natural birth cycle, and therefore take place 9 months later.

2008 CE: COG “prophet” Ron Weinland first set the beginning of the 3.5 year “Great Tribulation” as April 17, 2008, but later reset it to begin on December 14, 2008. Weinland has ordained himself and his wife “The Two Witnesses.”

6.8.2008 CE: Yisrayl “Buffalo Bill” Hawkins of The House of Yahweh made his third nuclear war prediction for this date.

2009 CE: COG “prophet” Ron Weinland has modified his prediction to allow for 980 days of Great Tribulation beginning on September 20, 2009. It never happened.

On Saturday night, December 4, 2010, an open letter from 57 employed elders was sent to President Luker, outlining their concerns about the crisis in the Church and asking the question whether we had reached an impasse with no hope of reconciliation. 

On Monday, December 13, 2010, several ministers among the 57 who had signed this letter to Mr. Luker discussed the lack of results from that effort and they agreed one final attempt should be made to talk or, most likely, seek a peaceful separation. Mr. Luker mentioned the idea of a peaceful separation in his 
very first message as president back in June of this year. Messrs. Lyle Welty, Dave Johnson and Richard Pinelli were asked to speak with Mr. Luker and they agreed to represent, unofficially, the signers of the open letter. These three men set up a meeting with Mr. Luker for Wednesday, December 15, 2010.

On Wednesday, December 15, 2010, the meeting took place as scheduled and Mr. Johnson submitted a report after the meeting. The meeting dealt mostly with terms of separation since there was no agreement to pursue any further 
dialogue. Here are excerpts from Mr. Johnson’s report: “[Mr. Luker] also said that if a new organization came about, he would like to  see a joint statement from both groups laying to rest any animosity and simply moving on in the way we felt 
we needed to. Richard [Pinelli] pursued the subject saying that if he understood what [Mr. Luker] was saying, that those who were concerned as we are would need to be able to meet to discuss what to do next. [Mr. Pinelli] asked if they 2
would be able to do that without recriminations. [Mr. Luker] said that he realized that they would need to meet to figure out the next steps, and that, as long as the meeting was focused in that way and not on attacking those who support the 
Council and administration, he would think such a meeting was reasonable and he would not have a problem with it… [Mr. Johnson] told [Mr. Luker] that if we were able to hold such a meeting, it would not be a foregone conclusion 
that we would be starting a new organization, but that would certainly be a possibility as we put all of our options on the table. [Mr. Luker] said he 
understood… Richard [Pinelli] wrapped things up saying we had basically come to the end of the things we needed to discuss and it was time now to act on what we had discussed. We thanked them again for the meeting with us…  It was 
agreed that the ministers in UCG who are not supportive of the Council can continue doing their jobs till we resign. There was no mention of a need for ministers to resign prior to our meeting.” Mr. Luker did tell the group that he would have to discuss this with the Council to get their thoughts. 

On Wednesday, December 15, 2010 a report on the meeting was sent to the signers of the open letter. Based on Mr. Luker’s comments, information was provided in this email message concerning the possibility of an Internet meeting 
to take place on Sunday or Monday (December 19 or 20) to discuss future options. Here is the quote:  “Denny was informed by Richard, Lyle and Dave that there is a meeting being planned in the near future. So, there is no 
secret concerning a meeting... Denny was told that all options would be on the table at that meeting including forming a new organization.”  

On Friday, December 17, 2010, Messrs. Welty, Johnson and Pinelli received a formal response from Mr. Luker regarding their Wednesday meeting. After speaking with the Council Mr. Luker changed the agreement that had been 
understood by the three men who met with him on Wednesday. Mr. Luker wrote the following: “You brought up that I had commented in my very first sermon as the then-new president of the United Church of God that if we as ministers could 
not agree, then we should consider a ‘peaceful separation’ rather than harm the Church and its precious members through continued divisive acts. That was about six months ago and quite a few events have taken place since then. So far 
as any process or procedure goes, we are without a roadmap. But we do know that we intend to protect the brethren entrusted to us, and that we cannot honorably or in good faith ask members to in effect ‘fund a separation.’ If your 
desire is to leave and form yet another new organization, that is your choice. If that is your choice,  then it is our belief that all of you should do thehonorable thing and voluntarily resign your status as an elder in the United Church of God.”  

On Friday, December 17, Jim Franks sent an email to the same group of concerned elders, confirming an Internet meeting for Monday, December 20 to discuss the future. The email stated that 
it was time to move forward with plans to hold a meeting to discuss recent events. Here is a quote from the email:  “Next week we need to firm up plans for moving forward… Within the next few days we 
will need to discuss the following (among other things)…” What follows is a series of questions - when the group should meet, where they should meet, and 3
what should be done about resigning or being terminated. This email did not provide any plans for a new organization since there were no plans, but only confirmed the meeting date and asked some basic questions for the discussion 
that would take place during the Monday meeting. The email was prepared on Friday afternoon, reviewed and edited, but not released until Friday evening. Mr. Franks wrote to Mr. Luker on Sunday, December 19, 2010 informing him of his 
intent to resign but asked for clarification on a couple of personal issues. Mr. Luker was out of the office on Monday attending the funeral for Dibar Apartian, so Mr. Franks contacted him by email letting him know that his resignation was 
effective Monday morning, December 20, 2010. Mr. Kilough also resigned effective at noon on Monday, December 20, 2010. The meeting in which a new organization was proposed took place on the afternoon of December 20. 

After the December 20, 2010 meeting  in which the proposal for a new organization was put forward, each participant made his own decision about the timing of his resignation based on personal circumstances. 

2012 CE: Multiple COG conspiracy theorists and other doomsayers have chosen 2012 for the end of the world, based on galactic alignments, Mayan prophecies, and “Biblical time cycles.”

5.27.2012: COG “prophet” Ron Weinland has reset his Apocalypse date for this time.

2015 CE: This is the date that many COG sects and false prophets have chosen for the return of Christ, assuming a three-year “Great Tribulation” starting in 2012. UCG and other cults have given us “three years” from today for the Second Coming.




